---
layout: post
title: "How Companies like Clearview are ending our privacy!"
author: "Mohammed Salama"
categories: journal
tags: [documentation,sample]
image: snow.jpg
---
I have always been alarmed about face recognition technology in general but  even more resistant to the idea that companies such as Clearview being permitted to scrap the internet collecting billions of images of people without their consent. I will present my point of view from two angles : The serious implication of the technology, and the issue of missing consent.

First, the potential harmful implications for such technology is endless as it will end the privacy as we know it . In addition, since privacy and security is strongly connected in many ways, this technology will put the safety a lot of people in great risk. Take as an example people who are put under Witness Protection Program Act and have their identity changed to protect them.  Think of how much risk these people will be out under when Clearview AI technology is used to reveal their true identity!  Second, the  very fact that the Clearview model is being used by law enforcement implies that it could have life changing consequences on people and since we know that all models are wrong and likely to have false positives,  we could easily imagine a case where the wrong person is convicted just because of a match that is found by the model. Moreover, once this technology is established there is no way to prevent from falling into the wrong hands. Just few days ago, Clearview AI github repo was publicly exposed and many people would have the chance to download the data and the code. This incident along with many others that happened during the recent months just show how vulnerable Clearview is for cyber attacks. Therefore , it can not be trusted with such powerful technology. 

Even if we assume that there is some magical ways to eliminate all  dire consequences of that Clearview will have on us by perfecting the app findings and ensure that strong measures were put  in place to prevent the misuse and abuse, there are ethical questions regarding how the training data is collected. The only way that Clearview was able to collect this huge data is by crawling the internet for images includes in site such Facebook and twitter where the users have never consented for their images to be used in this particular way when the signed up.

While the company is trying to compare itself to google, I really see big difference in the way both companies operate. Unlike google, where it is possible to ask for a content to be removed ," the right to be forgotten",  Clearview AI does not provide this option. First, there is no way individuals have access to their images in Clearview AI unless they provide formal request. Second, since this AI technology and the model is already trained, even if an image is removed, there is now way to unlearn what the model has learn through the training.

A couple of arguments have been raised the potential benefits of Clearview. It is claimed that Clearview AI has assisted the police in identifying criminals including child predators. However, accepting this arguments means that the end justifies the means, which is not acceptable and sure we could find many examples of substances that could have some benefits but are illegal due to the huge harm that could bring when weighted against the benefits  such as Cocaine!

In summary, I strongly believe this type of technology should not permitted to exist whether for limited use by selected entries or for public due to fact that definitely meet all conditions of weapon of math destruction as described by Cathy O'Neil in her book . Members of society should be informed about the serious consequence to public safety should companies such as Clearview AI allowed to use billions of images of users without their consent, build a neural net work to identify individuals by minimal effort as easy as pressing a button and then sell it for profit!

 